.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This man-page is Copyright (C) 2000 Nick Rasmussen <nick@jive.org>
.\"
.TH HRTIME 2 "Release 0.6.1" "Linux" "High-resolution timing"
.SH NAME
get_hrtime_struct, free_hrtime_struct \- high-resolution process timing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <hrtime.h>
.sp
.BI "int hrtime_init();"
.BI "int get_hrtime_struct(pid_t " pid ", struct hrtime_struct **" dest ");"
.BI "int free_hrtime_struct(struct hrtime_struct *" hr ");"
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIpid\fP 1i
The pid of the process from which to map the timing values.
.IP \fIdest\fP 1i
The pointer to be changed to point to the mapped timing values.
.IP \fIhr\fP 1i
A pointer to the htrime structure to be unmapped.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IP \fBhrtime_init\fP
Perform hrtime library initialization.  This \fBmust\fP be called
before any process querying function is called.
.IP \fBget_hrtime_struct\fP
Maps the timing structure of another process into your address space,
writing the pointer to the structure into \fIdest\fP.  If an error
occurs, the return value is non-zero and \fIdest\fP is written with
NULL.  If \fIpid\fP is zero, the current process' timing values are
mapped.
.IP \fBget_hrtime_struct\fP
Unmaps the timing structure specified by \fIhr\fP from your address
space.  If an error occurs, the return value is non-zero.
.SH AUTHOR
Nick Rasmussen <nick@jive.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR get_hrtime "(2), " get_hrvtime "(2), " get_hrutime "(2), " get_hrstime (2) 
.BR get_hrtime_self "(2), " get_hrvtime_self "(2), " get_hrutime_self "(2), "
.BR get_hrstime_self (2)
